happy friday
afternoon i am coming to you guys from
my house because i have been stuck here
for the last
wow it's been over a week uh last
not this wednesday but last wednesday
was the first day that i woke up with a
little bit of a tickle in the back of my
throat and since then my symptoms have
kind of gotten a little bit worse and
then a little bit better and then a
little bit worse and today i'm feeling a
little bit better but basically
whether you subscribe to the 24 hours
with no symptoms or 72 hours with no
symptoms
i am not there so i have not been able
to go back to work
so that's fine because you know what
nobody's supposed to be at work so why
don't we all stay at home and build a
computer right hey
and this stream is going to be brought
to you by private internet access i
think one second i forgot to double
check who my sponsor is for the stream
before i started it that's a classic
that's a classic tech tips move right
there
uh did i leave the stream unlisted i
certainly hope i didn't but that would
be exactly the sort of thing that i
would do yes i think i forgot to change
it to public on youtube because it hides
that button if you don't have it full
screen yep there you go oh well that's
fine i haven't really done anything yet
anyway and the good news is that when i
opened that up i was able to see the
youtube video description which did in
fact confirm that our sponsor for the
video today is private internet access
private internet access hides your true
ip and keeps anyone
like your internet service provider from
snooping on what sites you're visiting
and what data you're transferring to and
from your devices you can use it on up
to five devices at once with a single
account and you can try it for free so
check it out at the link in the video
description
all right that should be all fixed i
think we good nice we're live everywhere
now this is going to be a lot of fun
guys so
i haven't seen all the parts that i'm
going to be working with today so why
don't we run through them together i've
got my little
remote dude ad in my pocket here yeah
check this out using my ancient ifixit
kit this thing has served me very very
well so for cpu we've gone with a ryzen
5 3600 x this is intended to be kind of
like uh let's see is auto focus on that
thing oh nice got my webcam over here
for my secondary camera so this is
intended to be kind of like a value
gaming machine the target price point
was eight hundred dollars and it's
actually jake who put together the list
of components for us today uh some of
them are ones that you guys will be
pretty familiar with like the 3600x this
thing really is a spectacular value and
some of them you'll probably be a little
less familiar with check this out so for
our ssd we've gone with the
ex-920 m.2 ssd from yes my friends
the one and only hewlett packard
apparently hp has been getting into the
value ssd game
so we'll be going with one of these
apparently these are like actually
pretty decent performance it's only pcie
gen 3 so we're not going to be making
the most of the gen 4 capabilities of
our processor but as we showed in a
recent video there's really not much
point to gen 4 from a performance
standpoint if all you're doing is
playing games so there you go we've got
a 512 gig ssd which is
small enough that you're not blowing
your entire 800 budget on your storage
but big enough that you can actually
load like
three whole copies of do maternal onto
your system before you run out of space
i swear to you guys hard drives are
going to be making a comeback over the
next little bit in people's gaming
machines because games are getting so
big like what's the new uh what's the
new cod like 130 gigs or something
stupid like that so what you're going to
end up doing is you're going to take an
ssd like this one you're going to
partition off maybe like i don't know
250 gigs for your core programs and your
operating system then you'll partition
off another 250 gigs and use that with
something like primo cash for a hard
drive so that way whatever games you're
playing most frequently can be cached to
the ssd but you'll actually have enough
storage for a decent game library
um
all right for our motherboard we've gone
with the azroc b450 pro 4 just a good
solid value board asrock has really gone
all in on amd and that's a gamble that
seems to be paying off extremely well
for them
for our power supply we've gone with the
classic okay so this is evga's gd series
the gd is for good not great
but good you know not going to blow up
actually going to deliver the power it's
rated for 80 plus gold efficiency you
know no modular interface or anything
fancy like that but it's good you know
for ram we're going with some g-skill
rip jaws wait oh we didn't grab the amd
specific ones that's okay these are
pretty good specs so these are ddr4 3200
and
uh there you go cl 16. so that's about
the sweet spot in terms of price to
performance for an amd ryzen 3rd gen
system right there something to note
guys is man the
the terminology is going to get real
confusing over the next little bit
because
ryzen 3rd gen on desktop is
zen
okay and then ryzen 4th gen
on mobile is zen 2 so that means ryzen
4th gen on desktop is probably going to
be the upcoming
zen 3
and the numbers are just they're all
over the place so first gen ryzen was
zen
good job amd second gen ryzen was zen
plus
okay um good try amd and then now it's
all just basically gone to crap so
for desktop gen 3 ryzen this is a this
is a good price to performance uh spot
to be in and for graphics
we've gone with the rtx 2060 i believe
this is the ko
don't quote me on that i'm gonna have to
message jake i don't see anything
indicating on the box anywhere that this
oh yeah there it is the giant ko right
there silly me i was looking at the
product number how how funny what is
what a silly thing to do and then i was
also looking at the uh yes the part
number but no there were no indications
there just just this ko right here so
this is the ko which is actually based
on the same physical gpu as the 2070 if
i recall correctly
so what that means is that even though
the clock speeds and functional units
are a little bit different from a normal
2060 it will perform very similarly in
games but actually a little bit better
in professional applications that can
make use of its extra its extra oomph
oh yeah case we've gone with the
deepcool metrex
55v3 so without further ado why don't we
why don't we get started
let's build a computer ladies and
gentlemen
okay guys i'm building a computer you
guys are if you guys are gonna just talk
about nothing but the facial hair i'm
gonna have to get rid of it that's the
way it's gonna have to be it's it's
becoming a distraction for the class all
right i am i am trying to make a video
here
and
literally 90 of the comments are about
the beard so the story behind the beard
is that
i was stuck at home for a couple of days
and i
sort of realized that while i was at
least bothering to get dressed in the
morning
i was not really finding the time to go
through my my full morning routine
i always brush my teeth i can't stand
like
tooth funk and bad breath is a is a is a
personal
trigger of mine like there's just
there's just no excuse for it it's not
that much work to have breath that
doesn't stink um
but i hadn't bothered to shave for a
couple of days and i was like oh you
know that would be kind of memetastic
why don't i just why don't i just not
shave the entire time that i'm in
self-isolation
and then i had
sorry
i had only intended to be isolated for
like a couple of days because i was
going to go back to work after having
been
symptom-free for 24 hours and i had
planned to be symptom-free for 24 hours
basically immediately well it didn't
work out that way and i ended up just
actually being sick so now i just
actually have a beard uh all right so
let's go ahead and this board is
evidently not completely new because it
wouldn't normally ship with the back
plate taken off but um
yeah we probably used it for a previous
project or something like that a lot of
people ask hey guys
you know what do you do with all those
computers you build it's like wow if
only we had the technology to take apart
a computer
and
uh reuse it for a different project so
that
we would have you know that hardware
still to use for other projects that
that is exactly that is exactly what we
do uh when we're done with a computer
build we take it apart and we reuse it a
lot of the time um
i mean every once in a while a machine
will get left together like jake managed
to convince me to leave his copper
copper machine together because he kind
of needed a new workstation for work
anyway so we made a deal where he had to
change out the cpu and like take out one
of the graphics cards or something but
yeah he's using that still but for the
most part yeah we just take them we just
take them apart and then throw them on
the shelf and then when we need to do
like uh you know an 800 build tutorial
on a on a stream or something then we we
use it for that so i'm going to go ahead
and get this board back to its default
state where we run into trouble is when
we forget to fully take them apart like
when we accidentally leave m2s on
motherboards uh excuse me m.2 is on
motherboards that has been a real
problem for us over the last little bit
all right so let's do the cpu first
ryzen 5
3600 x this thing is such a boost a
boost sorry i was
i was reading the boost clocks off the
box to double double check what they
were this thing is such a beast like six
core processor
for this price
would have been
unthinkable you know back even like
four four five years ago when six core
and actually many more core than that
processors were readily available just
really expensive amd has really made
that uh
that triangle super small these days so
there's my little golden triangle i'm
going to line that up with the little
triangle on the motherboard here
so the way to know which way it goes is
uh
if you're holding the board in a
sensible orientation like wait what why
is that not going in
get in there
there we go all right that's better if
you're holding the board in a sensible
orientation like
with the io down
the text will be the right way
you know you'd think they would think of
stuff like that you know what we should
do is we should just make it so that the
text is right side up when the user is
installing it with the motherboard
sitting right side up
there you go amd there's an idea for you
free of charge
all i want is like 20 bucks okay just
send me a 20 check you can use my idea
your text will be right side up when
people install it it'll be super easy to
instruct people to orient their cpu
correctly from now on now it used to be
that the cpu socket could be oriented
like any which way on the motherboard
and something like that might not be
practical
but these days the uh the guidance for
the keep out zones and all that stuff
pretty much dictate that people put the
socket on the same way
now
someone i guess theoretically could
engineer a board where it was oriented
differently and that would break the
whole system but
that wouldn't be my problem all right
let's go ahead and install our memory
oh wow look at that
jake even pre-opened the tabs for me he
didn't it was probably matthias or tyler
whoever took apart the previous system
we had uh we had uh ivan
our our resident or formerly resident
slavin for uh for our cameo appearance
in a video a little while ago every time
i install ram i think of him uh what is
it uh
roses are red violets are blue
something something memory slots four
and two
uh the the the general rule though um
and the way that's easier for me to
remember it aside from just thinking of
him is that you want to have as much
room for your heatsink as possible most
systems get
only half of their memory slots
populated so generally speaking you
would find the primary slots farther
from the cpu giving it more room to
breathe
all right next up we've got our m.2 i am
i'm very curious about what exactly it
is that inspired hp to get into the the
diy parts market because the funny thing
about it is companies like dell or hp
or acer
they engineer their own versions of all
kinds of things from motherboards to
ssds to power supplies and they do real
engineering for them um even if they
aren't you know let's say alienware okay
even if alienware which is done by dell
is not a manufacturer of power supplies
and they get it built by you know fsp or
c sonic or whoever the case may be they
still a lot of the time as part of
specking out that unit will do real
engineering work on it and so it's
always been kind of you know baffling to
me that there's less crossover right
because you see the guys that build
custom parts getting into the system
building game i mean look at nzxt with
their build
um so you can now order a system from
nzxt whoops
um
anyway sorry we'll go down here
but it always kind of confused me that
they didn't really go the other way
i mean
or it confused me a little bit like i
didn't want any of that stuff so i
thought you know well maybe they just
assume it's like not good enough to
compete in the custom space but
yeah these actually seem to have a
pretty good reputation so
pretty pretty bog standard um it's got
looks like yep four n flash chips on it
it's got a dram cache back there
actually it looks like it's got
two
uh dram cache chips i'm just going to
take this label off so we can have a
look here oh they have rebranded the
controller
if i had to guess i'd say it's from like
fizen or something there's no way hp
built their own ssd controller is there
that would that would surprise me that
would surprise me very very much guys
let me know in the comments do you know
who makes the controller on this drive
i don't see anyone
wow the chat is going real
quick fast styles all right let's go
ahead and get this drive installed while
we see if anyone uh knows what
controllers on this thing
uh real
veltin says why not just use a two and a
half inch ssd well because the pricing
of m.2 nvme ssds has gotten so close to
sata that you might as well just use an
m.2 and there are cases where there can
be a benefit to using an m.2 so for one
thing
it's easier to install i'm done already
i don't have to run any cables or
anything like that
and for number two
um
there are situations where you will get
better performance if you happen to plug
in a a thunderbolt external drive which
you won't be doing on this because it
doesn't have thunderbolt but i believe
that should be a 10 gig usb type-c so if
you were to plug in like a
a usb 3.0 3.2 gen 2x2 i don't know what
they call them if you were to plug in a
usb 3 10 gigabit drive
then
and copy a file it would finish faster
to an nvme ssd
in
in a way that really affects your life
in a meaningful way probably not but
if you have the performance you might as
well take it right oh apparently it's uh
silicon motion makes the controller for
hp's ssd they've done some decent stuff
over the last little bit i mean nothing
that's going to be competitive with like
you know a samsung pro series or
anything like that but certainly a
functional you know dram cached ssd with
a decent controller on it so
what else we got
that was it for
cpu motherboard memory
ssd
i always feel like these builds are you
know going to be over in no time
especially now that you load so many
things onto the motherboard itself
before you have to really even start
building a computer um
but then you start to do the bigger
things like power supply and cable
management the tedious stuff it's like
oh yeah that took
a very long time didn't it
all right let's go ahead and get our
cooler installed so the thing about
ryzen is that you can talk all day about
you know needing great cooling for your
computer system because you want to
overclock or
whatever the case may be but the cold
hard truth is
ryzen
don't really overclock much
amd has got these things tuned
to the max pretty much out of the box
and as long as the motherboard makers
are implementing their bios correctly
you're going to get a basically peak
performance out of your ryzen 3 gen cpu
you can overclock but you're getting
into pretty exotic
cooling solutions if you want to see a a
significant performance boost
so unless you're after silent operation
the stock cooler ain't a bad way to go
and we're looking to save a buck on this
system so we're going with it i am
regretting uh putting back the cpu
socket to its stock configuration now
because actually this cooler which is
what is this the wraith
whatever the crap guys which which
wraith is this help me out
i can't remember um
this cooler actually screws into the
back plate which is a
much better
mounting system than this stupid plastic
clip thing that amd has had going on for
years and years i don't know why they
just didn't do away with the plastic
clip system all together like if you're
going to have to include
these metal screws and a back plate
which cost was one of the considerations
for why they had these plastic clips on
in the past if you're going to have to
have the back plate and these metal
screws anyway why not just make
the standard mounting mechanism
screw into that which apparently they
did so then just why why bother with any
of this i don't know
just you just do away with those plastic
things once and for all that's the way
that i would like to have it done i'm
just going to change my
screwdriver bit here
link me the shopping list of this build
says
uh ruben sandwich uh wraith spire thanks
ladies and gentlemen so this is the
wraith spire apparently
um
the links to all the parts for this
build are actually in the video
description on youtube already but
you're you're watching on uh twitch
because you prefer twitch for whatever
reason they're also linked in the video
description on floatplane which oh i'm
so sorry floatplane chat i haven't had
you guys up but i'm going to bring you
up now on my laptop here
seth admin kind of want to see linus
with a loop beard okay you guys are only
talking about the beard over there
everyone's just talking about the beard
guys i'm trying to
now i feel like you know a
woman with breasts might feel sometimes
like look can you focus on the content
you know for two seconds
just stop
stop with the you know secondary sexual
characteristics all right
crispy says i love you please reply
all right i have replied hopefully i
haven't opened up a can of worms here
i've replied but i'm not interested i'm
happily happily married all right
all right there's our cooler and i'm
going to do my trademark
little knot here
i still remember finding one of the
computers that i had built like many
years prior at the
at the scp hold on sorry what's like cpu
fan two slash pump cpu fan one right
there um at the ncix auction and i could
tell it was mine because one of my old
little tricks back before it was
commonplace for even stock coolers to
have sleeved cables was to
tie the three individual wires
into a braid so that they would stay
together and look a little bit i don't
know it was distinctive it was
distinctive if nothing else i did not
forget thermal paste guys i should have
mentioned that though
this cooler was brand new and already
had a thermal pad on the bottom so don't
worry guys
all good you probably couldn't tell
because this webcam ain't great um
hold on where did it go
ah there it is
i had intended
to use a classic our old blackmagic
cinema camera for our b cam for this
but i realized as i was about to go live
see it's working it's working great all
these years later
there we go see that look at that oh
yeah so i had intended to use this as
our b cam but i realized right as i
needed to go live and i was getting
things set up i forgot
it's sdi out which is a feature not a
bug like that was a big deal a camera at
this price with this image quality with
professional features like sdi out and i
don't have an sdi capture card at my
house so i'm stuck with the webcam again
unfortunately
uh oh hold on i'm going to turn this off
you will see some footage off this thing
over on short circuit though if you're
not subscribed on short circuit make
sure that you are that's our
quaternary channel i guess at this point
linus tech tips tech quickie
tech linked
i mean we could count channel super fun
we could count lmg clips
do we have six channels
septenary i actually don't even know
what the term is for that anyway make
sure you're subscribed on short circuit
all right what do we got next here oh
this is important
always
whoops keep track of things when you are
building a machine because you never
know when someone's going to need these
screws in these clips six months down
the line when this has been sitting on
the shelf for however long yes sdi is
boss it just kind of screwed me over
today it's funny because i even thought
of it when i asked them to send me over
the avio capture card the hdmi one i was
like you know maybe you should send the
sdi one too just in case but then i was
like i don't have any sdi stuff at my
house um
got someone asking i don't know the
chat's moving too fast i can't tell got
someone asking what laptop this is this
is the xps 13 two and one um i am
obligated to disclose that i
did a sponsored video on this one but
that is not in fact why i use it i just
really like it and then the skin on it
i managed to convince dbrand to dig up
some of their old carbon fiber pink
much to the chagrin of the owner over
there uh i just told him i wasn't going
to put a d brand skin on my laptop if he
couldn't find me any of the pink and so
he uh he acquiesced
uh why did i take these
side of cables out i don't need those
all right that's fine so we're going to
do some tidy up put our sata cables away
put our extra
mounting hardware away put our
anti-static bag away
all right motherboard is prepped got the
i o shield let's go ahead and move on to
the case
uh what is what from the 80s what do you
what are you floatplane guys talking
about
it wouldn't be as bad if you could lower
the exposure on the webcam
i think it's set to auto and the reason
for that is that i am next to a window
in order to get enough light in here and
the sun keeps getting covered or
uncovered by the clouds so i had to
leave it on auto so that it would
compensate for that
man that chat is moving way too fast all
right let's get the case open shall we
uh-oh
oh
i need that whoa
there's a couch behind me yep
tripped on it don't worry i'm good okay
good that's still working
oof
i don't actually know if this one is
brand new or if it's been used before
cases are always the really fun one to
grab out of our warehouse because
i would say a good
60 of the time if they've been used
before not all the hardware was put back
properly
thank you my staff oh man you know when
you can tell you're gonna get zapped
like the hairs on my arms are standing
up just moving close to this thing i'm
gonna get it over with
oh that wasn't bad oh it's probably
gonna get me again when i take the
styrofoam off
oh wow this got
this got hurt and shipping this is why
this stiff foam
sucks so much because especially once
someone let's say a system integrator
were to to load up a full system in the
thing it's a lot more weight
and one hit on this stuff even with just
the case inside it's done
so another hit and you start getting
some really really bad stuff happening
if you've got a full system loaded in
did anyone notice linus's prusa 3d
printer
uh what are you talking about i already
sent that back to the office
uh
that's weird yeah no it's not here
yeah no i sent that back with matthias
this morning um so that's for a video
that we've done supporting operation
shields up that's going to be coming up
uh
probably within the next i don't know
hopefully the next very short period of
time
but yeah we've actually got over 20
prusa 3d printers running at the office
right now making face shields
so it should be pretty cool
all right sorry chat you're out of the
reflection now
uh i seem to be short
one of the thumb screws for the tempered
glass side panel at least the side panel
didn't break though
i've got what appears to be rgb wiring
this case have rgb
that would be very unlike jake
to blow
extra budget on rgb
on a build like this for 800 bucks so it
must just
not cost more or something
uh are we really
are we really sure to screw
i do hear some stuff rattling around in
there
it might just come out
hello
that sounded like a screw right
okay
we're gonna have to do this the patient
way i can see that this case has been
used there's one of the pci bracket
things pulled out already
that's the super cheap way of doing that
what's going to be the best way to show
you guys what i'm doing here
because i realize now that that webcam
angle
kinda needs to change
and i do not have a convenient way to
change it it's uh unfortunately
not on like a
oh like a flexi arm or anything like
that it's just on a c stand
okay where is that
thing that's rattling around in here
i don't see it
it's not behind the front panel is it
how's the front panel come off this
thing
ow
my face
hold on where's my where's my camera
switcher
oh
got it
so there's uh all four of our tempered
glass side panel retention screws we
good all right
fantastic well you know what we could do
is we could just build the system
upright and then maybe i could just
angle it up a bit
hey yeah we can make that work couldn't
we ladies and gentlemen there we go all
right well i'm gonna pop the front panel
back on for now it looks like the way
the cooling is configured in this case
is
three fans for intake unfortunately
that's not a filtered intake it does
have like kind of little grills here but
i
i think dust will get caught on them but
i wouldn't describe them as
a filter there's also not a ton of
um
like intake area here so those those
three fans might just be
kind of necessary to maintain decent
cooling in the thing i figured out what
the rgb was for so it looks like there's
an rgb
light strip down here and that's wired
in
right here
other than that nothing is wired into
the front which
seems to be tempered glass
so that's nice because the i o is all
right here so we've got power usb 3 usb
an led control button headphone and
microphone jacks
all right let's go ahead and get our i o
shield installed
fun fact one of my staff was telling me
that apparently asus
patented the built-in i o shield which
is why they're the only ones that do
that
so there you go the more you know
it really is quite nice and convenient i
do like it
because this is a good way to cut
yourself mind you half the reason for
that is that this is a really cheap io
shield i still think there is an amazing
business opportunity out there for
someone to produce custom i o shields
like it could not be
that hard i'm not saying it would be
easy and like i could do it in an
afternoon i'm just saying
i think it's got to be doable
for someone to be able to make like a
like a like a machine learning thing or
or something like a smart scanner of
some sort where people could basically
send
like a couple key angles like pictures
from a couple key angles of their
motherboard and you'd be able to spit
out like a custom like just laser-cut io
shield that would match it i think
there's a lot of people out there with
motherboards that are missing their i o
shields that would pay
like
if it was a decent board that i was
trying to that i was like trying to use
i would pay i'd say 14.99 like i think
i'd pay 15 bucks for an i o shield for
it if i didn't have it
msi apparently uses preinstalled shields
too
okay how did i miss that well there you
go asrock apparently does it too well
there you go see this is what happens
this is this is why i do have to try to
keep up on these things rather than you
know hashtag lie ness
um just let them do everything for me
because sometimes they get it wrong
okay so let's have a look at how
everything is pre-wired in here oh boy
i don't have snips
that could be slightly problematic
um
i will call my beautiful wife
to
hopefully
bring me a thing i need
yay
man have you guys been watching the
stock market lately i don't i have
nothing invested thankfully right now
no gold no stocks nothing
but man this roller coaster is just it's
wild
so i watch the tech stocks just to so
that i know what's going on um but like
nvidia is down four point five two
percent today amd down four point two
seven percent and you know they'll go up
ten percent another day um hi
could i get um
side cutters
super chats
oh yeah yeah super chats
um he means people who subscribe on
float plane and contribute to us
regularly right just kidding super chats
are good too
in other news floatplane
uh
yeah amd craft watching watching the
bitcoin subreddit right now oh i know
right
whether you're a bull or a bear for
bitcoin
you're right
these days
oh man
those are side cutters
yes my dear
actually i should have probably told you
this before you went out to the garage
and came back um could i also have some
cable management supplies
wow these are horrible i think i have
another pair of side cutters with a dark
blue handle
i can't cut this is unbelievable
i have never encountered a worse pair of
side cutters than this i cannot cut
oh man
i can't cut this
plastic cable tie
like it seems to be
functional
like there's not a lot to go wrong here
but i cannot cut it
i should throw these away
they're quite literally the worst
oh these must belong to my dad or like
must have belonged to him at some point
because
i don't know if i'm going to be able to
show you guys this they are completely
flat they're not side cutters they're
side mashers
they're like senior citizen side cutters
no they're not supposed to be in sharp
things and these also aren't sharp these
can be literally thrown away they're
unusable
thank you you're the best
you know those aren't just words right
you really are the best
she's the best
all right let's throw this io shield
back on here
okay that's good all right let's go
ahead and cut off this old cable
management
that's how that was supposed to go in
the first place
okay
man this doesn't give me a lot of room
to stand over here this angle but that's
okay
all right so there's all our front i o
we can deal with that later
here's our front fans so what the crap
are these plugged into i don't really
understand
what's going on here so fan one fan two
like what are all these what are all
these other fan leads coming off of this
is this
i am legitimately super confused okay so
i'm just gonna unplug
all of the front fans there we go what
is this
it seems to be
a five-way fan splitter
so there's one power plug
there you go i can't remember would this
be female or male i don't know it
doesn't matter let's say female there's
one female one
two
three
four
five male connectors i mean as long as
you don't
you know
exceed the uh current limit of
your
uh your header i guess that's fine
but then what is all this
oh this has got to be rgb
but why are there so many things plugged
into it already
uh-huh
maine
um okay well i guess we're just gonna
kind of wing it with those i'm not
adding any more rgb to the case so what
i'll probably do is just like cram it up
there
throw a cable tie on it and call that
good
all right we'll wire the fans back in
later in the meantime why don't we go
ahead and install the power supply
sorry i gotta make sure that whatever
messages i'm getting are not
about
oh man okay yeah that's
not the most disastrous thing ever but
pretty uh
pretty brutal
um so i filmed a video last night where
i tried to film a video last night about
die infusing
um the tops of keycaps to make your own
custom full-color keycaps super cool
topic
unfortunately
we accidentally bought dye
that was not
um
like infusion dye it was just
regular printer ink
so i went to uh
not my fault by the way not my fault but
i went to do it and it didn't work at
all so our plan to finish the video
today was to just go to a shop that is
set up for for printing with
infusion
dye
and um
and then just use that just be like hey
lol we did it wrong but uh hey learn
from our mistakes uh and
it's fine don't worry we've got
something let's show you how to actually
press them onto the keycaps now
unfortunately the shop we were planning
to use apparently let go of all of their
staff and
the soonest they're going to be able to
get us anything is next week see this
this is how the economy crashes
right
it's like
everyone panics because business is down
gets rid of all their staff
and then
now they have no staff so when the
business is ready to come back well now
it's not just a coronavirus blip
now it's a downturn in your business and
a very significant one at that
i mean i'm not like i'm not trying to
lecture people i'm not saying that they
necessarily had a choice a lot of small
businesses if they're lucky might have a
month worth of worth of float and just
because you have a month's float doesn't
mean you want to burn it all in one go
like i can see why people would panic
after a week or two like especially
really cutthroat industries like the
restaurant industry it's brutal it's
brutal out there
but it also just does become a bit of a
self-fulfilling prophecy when um
as a reaction to a downturn
you slash all your staff and then you
have no way to fulfill
orders that's all i'm saying so our goal
for the downturn um actually had a
conversation with um
with luke about floatplane as well he
was like look hey i
don't know where your headspace is at
but like you know if there's anything
that we can do to make sure that you
know everyone's job is protected i was
like yeah yeah don't worry dude you've
been working with me a long time um
you know my personal goal um mine andy
vaughn's goal for this entire thing is
for
no one in in either of our companies to
lose their jobs
we may ask some people to apply for the
canadian government's
benefits
which will be paid out through ei and we
will have to issue them a record of
employment but technically you're
supposed to issue a record of employment
anytime your
your wages are interrupted for i think
it's seven days anyway that doesn't mean
you lose your job you just have to issue
an roe
and the reason for us having them go
through the government is then it
doesn't cost us anything and it's
actually very similar to the sick pay
program that we put in place anyway so
we're doing
uh we're doing two weeks just covered by
us out of pocket and if for whatever
reason you're not ready to come back to
work after two weeks um then we're
asking people to go through the
government but they have not lost their
job hundred percent they still have
their job
um i am having a really hard time
putting this screw into the power supply
hello
okay
i really wish i had my orange
screwdriver right now but it's actually
dead
uh the ratchet mechanism has just
completely gone in the last probably i
don't know a couple weeks or so there we
go finally got one
i mean it shouldn't surprise any of you
guys if you're if you're woke
that uh i don't know how to put in a
power supply right
take take the take the wool off from
from over your eyes
wake up and smell the
kibble
now that's an old reference
jason wade says my dogs are barking one
sec
dude you're in the youtube chat
nobody can hold a conversation in there
anyway who are you talking to
i'm like i'm not gonna you know what
actually
i will wait
i'm gonna wait for jason i'm gonna read
some floatplane some float plane chats
until jason gets back after having dealt
with his dog
uh what do we got here oh f f for
respects thanks guys that's very
very helpful contribution you're making
right there
um
linus did you update the bios i believe
because this board has been used fairly
recently the bios is in fact updated yes
uh jason are you back yet can i continue
i'm not seeing jason there yet
that's fine jason i can wait you go you
go put your dog outside or whatever
jason must have a big house
because like he's been gone for a while
still not back
i mean either that or the dog is like
you know not being cooperative about
going outside like sometimes you're like
you know go on go on go out and they
like they look like they're gonna go but
then they like stop and they're like do
i really have to go you're like yeah go
on you get out and then you and then you
kind of get up from your chair and then
they're like oh yeah i'm going i'm going
and then
you kind of sit back down she's like
yeah i faked him into it or her into it
and then they're like oh but do i really
have to go and then you have to like
actually get up and go like take them
out
um
sorry jason we really can't wait any
longer unfortunately so you're either
you know if you're such a big baller
that you have like a gigantic house
anyway then i think you can get someone
to build a computer for you if you can't
uh tune into the whole stream here and
see how to screw these screws into the
power supply
oh i'm not i don't even have the right
angle for you guys anyway
hold on let's get you let's get you that
right angle this keyboard always goes to
sleep so
i have really been taking my sweet oh is
jason back you know what good timing
jason you actually really didn't miss
much
wait a minute
oh weird evga puts two full sets of
screw holes on their power supplies so
you can
screw them in however you want
oh that's neat
very cool good job evga they think of
little things like that you know
all right
so let's go ahead and do some
rudimentary cable management here
get most of these things going to the
right places
let's try not to lose my laptop
besteka says the perfect occasion for an
orange ltt edition screwdriver
i would be lying if i said we hadn't
thought of that
but i can say no more unfortunately
all right we're gonna run our eight pin
there we go
that's the cpu8 pin you can tell because
it splits into four and four rather than
six and two
we'll run that up
through the top top grommet up here
there you go
so that's ready to be where it needs to
be uh how many plugs do we need on this
ko graphics card i'm just going to check
that real quick here
wow
that is some
kind of kludgy but uh definitely
effective packaging evga you can tell
this is one of those like
nvidia calls them up like hey we've got
a bunch of these gpus we need to do a
rando card with them you want to take
them all
and they're like oh yeah let's figure
out how to package this i guess we're
just going to cut a sheet of foam and
wrap it around it because we're not
going to design custom packaging for
like a weirdo one off like this uh rtx
2060 oh yeah here we go so a single
eight pin that's what we're going to
need
that's like a long ko tradition i
remember the uh actually no it wasn't a
ko the 7900 gto was another one of those
evga nvidia collabs where nobody else
had that
that card at that price and they were
just basically clearing out all the 7
900 gtxs but at like half the price
it's a common tactic to create a new sku
that's basically the same thing at a
lower price rather than trashing the
price of your you know your gtx like
your top of the line
series um does this
power supply not have any molex
connectors
oh no it does there's one at the end
here and then on the other
one there's two at the end okay it does
it does have molex connectors
we might not need any of them
because it looks like
the fans all wait yes we will we're
gonna need
one sata connector look at that just for
the rgb button up at the top of the case
we can go ahead and wire that up now
unplug this connector if you use
motherboard to control the lighting oh i
guess we could use the motherboard to
control the lighting actually
what would be the easiest way to do that
though
i could not tell you i guess i'd have to
have all the same connect
oh i guess i'd just need
yeah one of these style connectors which
i definitely do not have right now all
right
all right so we're gonna plug this in
in terms of cable management i think i'm
just gonna jam
all of the sata and molexes down here in
the front of the power supply under the
basement
this is a live build not a uh
you know i have three hours to cable
manage i mean
have someone else cable manage for me
and then
come back and it's magically done so you
guys are going to see how i actually
build a computer when i'm
in a hurry to get something done
uh i want this behind the 24 pin
there we go
so i'll
cram that in there a little
cram that in a little bit more
let's go ahead and do some more cramming
feel like i'm back in school i'm doing
so much cramming right now
cram cram
crammity cram cram cram cram
doing some more cramming
more cramming
maximum crammage
hey
and it's gone
beautiful it's cable managed
all right
power supply is installed
let's go ahead and throw the motherboard
in shall we
what are the odds this case has all of
the appropriate standoffs already
installed in it
look at that it does this is going to be
so
easy it's gonna be like pie level easy
you know
like 3.14 out of 10 easy
or difficulty yeah no no like 10 out of
7 out of 10 easy there
3.14 difficulty
all right where are my screws at
oop
don't worry we good
all the essentials are still up here
oh that's how you're supposed to plug in
the rgb they've got an adapter
from the locking connector that they use
to something that you're more likely to
find on your motherboard oh cool i don't
know if this oh it does too
does it have five volt rgb though
it might yes
it does it has addressable uh rgb
down at the bottom cool all right so
it's got a header for that
nice
uh
yeah i think i've got i think i've got
everything i need here
that's a nice little touch maybe i do
understand why jake
thought it was worth the extra for the
rgb with this case
all right motherboard screws we'll start
with
i really need a stronger magnet on my
screwdriver this could be
a disaster waiting to happen oh
something i didn't show you guys before
but that i did do
was bending back this little tab on the
i o shield here i hate those when you
get them stuck in the connector
all right we only need six screws can i
do it standing up
oh no
okay no it's fine all good okay
uh
oh yes this is how we're gonna do it so
we're gonna do the reach through
okay i'm gonna put this bloody screw
back on the screwdriver
i'm gonna get you guys a bit
get you guys a better angle here right
oh i could have done that ages ago oh
that would have been so much better wait
where'd my screwdriver go
oh
got it it's here
oh where'd the screw that was on there
go
well
nothing we can do about it now
come on stay on there okay here we go so
i'm just using pressure against the back
to hold the motherboard in place
and i need a screw hole
come on
you can do it
come on there little buddy oh wait shoot
are these not 632 threaded
ah they're not
they're m whatever the crap
these m4 i think they're m4 rather m4 m3
i can't remember
i can never remember that
i don't know why it doesn't seem that
hard you know
like i can remember the dummy imperial
one
i can't remember the metric ones
i should know metric
i am canadian
all right sweet
motherboard is basically in now that's
half the screws
this is one of those like kind of pin or
skinny motherboards
it's like atx sort of
except that it's not because it's not as
long as a standard atx board they went
and they put in the classic uh 10th
screw hole though so normally on a
full-size atx you would have um nine
and then there's this like extra one
that back when i got into computers
intel was the only one that still
adhered to the the full
standard and put that screw hole and
everyone else just did the nine
but they went they put that one on so
it's a seventh in this case
while we've got easy access to the
motherboard that's the best time
to plug in all the things to it
so we'll take our
our two four pins so this is another
mark of like a good but not great power
supply these don't have any kind of lock
to hold them together so you just got to
kind of
hold them while you put them in
i mean it's not that hard
if you've done it enough times you can
do it pretty quickly but it's just
it's you know it's a creature comfort or
rather it's a lack of a creature comfort
i do like having that that lock in there
it does make a difference uh these ones
actually oh yeah again they don't have a
full proper lock they just have like a
little tab i don't mind that though
that's a lot better than having not
nothing
in this case there's a little bit too
much strain on this cable though and
this is going to be a bit of a bear to
plug in
only because i have to do it from behind
the system though
if i didn't have you guys here for those
darn kids
i would have this done already
oh well that explains why it's um not
grabbing on okay there it goes on the
other side you can tell from the arrows
it's got these handy dandy little arrows
that show you that those arrows go
together there's probably a better way
to indicate that but
who am i to critique
oh right a critic
do you guys see that uh i think it was
on instagram or something twitter i
don't know but someone posted that their
dad looks just like the food critic from
ratatouille it's amazing he does he
looks just like it like him
forget his name but we watched that
movie with our kids pretty recently
great movie
i feel like
there's a there's this kind of divide
for pixar movies there's the ones that
are like really great movies and then
there's the ones that sell a lot of toys
like
cars
cars is terrible
it's awful it's not not good at all in
any way
but
man the number of cars bed spreads that
i've seen
over the years
it's like yep
yep that did pretty well it's like it's
no mystery why they didn't make another
incredibles for 12 years or whatever
because i don't think incredible sells a
lot of toys
maxwell drive says you just don't like
larry the cable guy
i don't mind larry the cable guy at all
my problem is owen wilson
like nothing personal against him i'm
sure he's a fine human being
i just
i can't stand it
it's like wow
wow
wow cars wow
i can't i just can't and like that's his
shtick and that works and you know he
has been a great success as a as a
rom-com
you know actor and like i'm sure he's
done something more serious than that at
some point i don't know i don't watch it
because i don't i just i just
i i can't do it i just can't do it i'm
sorry i'm sorry i'm sorry
some guts we got some owen wilson
fans that are like not happy right now
but
you know not everyone can be a fan of
everything you know
so
cars bad movie but also i could be
biased af
so there's that yeah if owen wilson's
watching this channel his heart is
broken
i don't know i mean all of like
all of production land is basically shut
down right now for all i know he is
watching this channel
but i doubt it
if you are i'm sorry dude i i yeah i
mean it's like like i said it's nothing
personal i'm sure you're a fine fine
human being what do you mean this line
is not like people from the south
has nothing to do with being is even
from the south what are you even talking
about that's not a southern accent
that is an owen wilson accent if you say
gee wow
no one's like
oh what southern city are you pretending
you have an accent from they're like
oh owen wilson
southern accent
power switch
oh there's no reset switch on this case
that can be a bit of a pain in the butt
but
it's like it's one of those things where
it only costs you five seconds to hold
down the power button but the only time
you need a reset switch is when you're
like really mad already so
i'm always kind of torn when i see
no reset switch
it's not a real problem it's just
something that i get really frustrated
by when
when i'm really frustrated already and i
realize i have no reset switch
apparently larry the cable guy is a fake
southerner
do you ever watch formula one no i can't
say that i do i am
i am not
a car guy
in
in the
in the truest
sense guys i just
i just don't care it's like
for me there's there's one critical
question i've got to ask myself when it
comes to motorsports
um or like motor vehicles really because
not motorsports i'm not really into any
motorsports but for motor vehicles
there's there's one question how many
wheels does it have and if the answer is
more than two
then
we in trouble because it ain't gonna it
ain't gonna pique my interest
i really gotta get my bike on the road i
haven't insured it yet this season and
i'm like
i can always feel it around this time of
year like i'll just be kind of cranky
and i'll be like what what is it
and then i'll be like
motorcycle withdrawal i go i insure my
bike i go up for a ride you know get the
wind
whipping around me yeah that's better
totally take takes care of it
every season every season i don't even
ride that much and i don't get out on
the track or anything like that i had a
track day planned i was going to go down
to laguna seca with a friend and i was
going to do my first track day
um
super super excited about it and then it
ended up being cancelled due to
coronavirus obviously that's a very
first world problem i'm not saying that
uh
you know you guys should feel bad for me
or anything i just i was jazzed to do it
and i didn't get a chance to because we
haven't really browed out in a long time
since he moved down there
so it would have been really nice to
hang out with my friend and also uh
go ride my bike real fast around the
track
but we weren't able to make it happen i
did leave things i hope on good terms
with those guys and they're still uh
hopefully going to be in business when
all this is over so i would like to get
down there but uh
did not work out for now all right so
that's it front i o is hooked up i
realize i kind of um
stopped talking to you guys about what
i'm doing for a little bit there so
let's do a quick recap
so we plugged in front panel audio over
here it only goes in one way plugged in
front usb 2 right there plugged in the
front switches they're conveniently
labeled on this motherboard i don't
understand why any motherboard doesn't
have them labeled i mean you already
have to silk screen a bunch of crap onto
the pcb you might as well still screen
the labels for that so that's really
nice uh usb 3 is right here 24 pin 8 pin
and that's everything that we need to
connect to the motherboard with the
exception haha whoops
almost got
almost got got right there with the
exception of this right here so this is
a four pin not that this this is a 4-pin
addressable rgb connector and i'm going
to put that onto the header on the
motherboard so we can actually use
software
to control the rgb lighting in the case
super nice
love it love it actually should i bother
you know what i don't care okay that's
what we would do i'm not going to bother
though because then i have to install
software to show you guys the rgb
lighting so i'm just going to hook it up
to the button that's built into the case
it's a nice implementation i like it
it's nice to have that choice you know
oh cool and they even include a little
adapter so you can take
their connector that they're using plug
that into the end of the string you've
already got and then plug in some
standard strips
real nice
you guys thought of everything didn't
you
good job deep cool
all right i am going to
use their adapter doodad for my fans i'm
actually going to use
we're going to tie it into cpu temps so
i'm going to use the
alt
cpu connector up here which is also like
a pump connector that's going to handle
all of our ah should we no let's use
let's use a case fan connector we'll use
a chassis chassis connector so i'm going
to use the one down here
this is nice value boards have come such
a long way like i remember back in the
day you'd be lucky if you had you know
two fan headers one for cpu and one bag
here for a rear case fan on like a
budget board nowadays you can get like a
decent motherboard with everything you
really need
for not a lot of money
all right should we plug in a graphics
card
i think we should
i already ran through this a little bit
earlier on the stream but for those of
you who weren't here the rtx 2060 ko
from evga is a special edition rtx 2060
that is going to have about the same
performance as a regular one in games
but because it uses physically a
different graphics processing unit it'll
have better performance in like uh
compute applications so if you're a pro
on a budget and you're looking for a gpu
this is basically the way to go oh look
at that has a dvi connector oh
i wonder if that's how they nerf it
i didn't realize this only has a single
displayport connector
that's a bit of a drag
honestly speaking
huh
well that's how they nerfed it cool now
we know i'm gonna go ahead and plunk
that bad boy right there
and uh i went and put away all the
screws and i still need some of those
so now we need 6 32s the ones at the
back of the case are always 632. almost
always 632. basically always 632.
oh okay this is a bit of a design flaw
in the case that's not great when you've
got like a big old
uh barrier interfering with
plugging in the screws that sort of sort
of bites
that's real hard to put in straight
there if those thumb screws it wouldn't
be quite so bad because then you could
at least start them easily
oh that
doesn't help i'm doing this left-handed
either
hmm well it would be fine if i was doing
it left-handed the problem is that i'm
not doing it left-handed because i'm not
left-handed i'm just doing it with my
left hand
okay
and you know
better to better to not do something at
all than to do it with your left hand
that's what i always tell my wife
this sucks
okay that's in there i am not bothering
to put in the other one because one is
enough i have an sv650s
david shaw
all right well that's in there
not the greatest experience ever but
says shave please shave and soapy lmao
minus homeless tips
yeah well you know
look it's only during the covid it's
only during my covid isolation
um let's see
sorry i just got to put this uh
see when i said your eight pin you can
tell which one's the cpu because it's
four by four or four and four instead of
six and two so you can tell this one's
pci express
there we go
all right cool
ah i wish this connector wasn't just
dangling there but like i said it's a
good power supply not a
not a great power supply
there you go
all right
this computer is like mostly built at
least from this side
still got some work to do
let's plug in let's do let's do some
cable management first
so our eight pin is going to go into
these little convenient cable management
spots right along the edge here that are
designed for just such an occasion
all right
can you guys see what i'm doing oh uh it
would probably be better to change the
camera wouldn't it we can do that
hold on first let me just
put that bad boy on there
there we are
oh two
who cares about cable management come on
guys we gotta try at least a little bit
we have to sort of look like we thought
about making an effort how about that
that'll be the standard
for this for this build so we'll throw
that guy on there
you don't actually need that many cable
ties to
take it from
total rat's nest to fairly reasonable
all right
and let's you know
pop that on
right there
uh where'd my cable ties go
this is actually an ssd mount not a
cable tie point but uh i'm not mounting
a sata ssd so i don't care
now it's a cable tie mounting point
there we go
those guys can sit there
you like that
little something like that
it seems all right this can jam down
there
you know we jamming now
i'm just gonna tie that one down there
actually as we get to
the front of the case here there's a
little bit more that i might want to
tie together in one
one bundle
so that looks
that looks pretty good for one bundle
yeah
okay i can't tell if you guys can see
what i'm doing or not
the challenge of not having a camera
operator
that's okay i'm embracing
i'm embracing my isolation here i might
never go back to the office
i'm going back to the office
working from home is
not as good as working from the office
it was kind of fun for a little bit
but then it was over
man that is really tight
okay
yes got it
so now we're going to put them side by
side so that it'll go down flat enough
that we're going to be able to close
that side panel
and then we're gonna go ahead and we're
gonna
we're gonna jam all these extra bits
what is this where'd this come from
oh yeah i know what this is this is for
the front fans
so we're gonna run this over here for
now and then we're just going to jam all
these extra bits down into the bottom of
the case there
look i said we were just trying to make
it look like we tried a bit i didn't say
we were doing a perfect job here
ah
there we go
not bad not great but not bad
there's our fans
what is that
oh wait what okay
cool
and
mute it
all right
um
[Music]
here's all the rgb oh they already be
wearing is stuck under there man when i
show you guys the table that i'm working
on you are going to flip out
i'll show you at the end of the stream i
can't do anything to it right now
but it's kind of hilarious
all right i'm just going to jam all the
rgb wiring under there
there we go
and then uh
yeah i'll like
secure it right there
cool trust me it's like the funniest
thing ever
you will love it
let me just say this table
is not
is not a chest height or a waist height
table at all
it's it's a much lower table
okay
um
[Music]
all right let's plug in these
so we'll go right there
no
go right
can this one reach one of them
i'm just going to undo this i uh i tied
these together just so i could keep
track of them keep all the
fan power together
before
all right so that goes
there
that goes
and that
goes on there
perfect
now we're gonna jam all of it
down there
hey
all right
i could put another cable tie on here
but i'm not gonna bother
okay maybe i should bother
nah it seems good enough
there
that's not so bad
as long as you ignore this part which we
can because we're never going to see it
again
let's throw the side panel back on
wait no
wait yes am i going to bother to boot
this thing up
do i even like need to that was it that
was how to build a computer i guess we
could turn it on to make sure that it
actually works but then i don't have a
monitor
ah this could be slightly problematic
i really did not think this through
let's see this is the problem if i was
at the office getting a monitor is just
a matter of
um
you know
hey
gotta i gotta grab a monitor and that'll
take
one minute at home i would have to go
disentangle my desktop computer from
my
uh from my setup and that would be
really really really awful right about
now do i even have enough power outlets
here
i've got one
uh no i do maybe have enough wait what
is this
is this plugged into anything oh yeah
okay
maybe i could power it up
okay i will
i will consider it
how would i be able to do that though
okay maybe
if i
killed
the webcam feed
and then i actually ran it through a
capture card
oh
okay
maybe that could work give me one sec
guys
all right
here's an avio 4k
handy dandy little usb 3 capture card
i'm going to unplug the oh man i hope
the stream doesn't like crash or
something okay i'm at least gonna i'm at
least gonna power it on so we can see
the lights turn on before i try and do
anything
because if i if i completely break the
stream then i'll just end it there
instead of i'll call quit while on the
head instead of trying to fire it up
all right so usb 3 goes into that
i'm in my living room so
i'm just going to plug this into my
vr pc
okay webcam
is on
and then
i've got just a
six foot hdmi cable here
i'm gonna move the system over to the
other side
right there
and then i'm just gonna run this down
the front here
okay that's sort of the best we can do
okay
ah
now we've got ah yes good this
oh i've got another idea
oh this could work oh this might okay we
might just be crazy enough to get away
with this guys
because
where'd it go ah yes
i've got my
rockets over here
so
i could go
retrieve that from the tangle of wires
behind my vr pc and we could plug that
in first let's see if the thing actually
posts though because if it doesn't we
are not uh we are not going to do a
whole troubleshooting stream here so
video capture device
uh add existing
evio
4k
uh
oh
okay
so is that here i cannot tell
well i guess we're going to find out
let's go ahead and let's go ahead and
fire it up
well we'll try
we're going to try man i've got a lot of
extension cords daisy chained here
and
moment of truth
all right she powers
so that's a good sign
there's no like postcode indicator on
this or anything so
we don't have too much information yet
no fan spin at the front what you
talking about we got plenty of fan spin
at the front ladies and gentlemen you
just you can't really see them they're
definitely spinning in there yeah there
you go see we got we got plenty of fan
spin
okay
we got so much fan spin they're like
they're more like meat than fans you
know
so much so much spin
okay
um so i just don't really know what
happened
with that source i don't know why oh
wait let's do a deactivate and activate
on it
uh
is that something happening
i can't tell
resolution in fps device default
uh-huh
okay you've got something that that's
that's it that that's so that's a thing
that's a thing all right
got a black square going on here
okay
let's try that again
okay hdmi oh there's your problem
all right
all right we got the capture card
plugged in but we we plugged the hdmi
into the back of the computer we didn't
put that oh wow that barely barely
reaches
that might come apart at any moment
okay
unfortunately i used the one long hdmi
cable that i have at home to plug into
the camera so
we're stuck with that okay
oh interesting hey whoa
looks like jake preloaded an operating
system for me
how about that okay
okay we're we in business does this
thing have built-in white oh it doesn't
have wi-fi
okay uh i can solve this
yes yes i can solve this okay brb
i need an ethernet cable
uh i need an ethernet cable actually
before i need an ethernet cable i need
the
uh
cord for the sofa
[Music]
okay
all right let's try that first let's
just make sure
make sure that's working
hey
hey how's it going
how you doing
i'm good how are you yeah
good thanks
and yourself
fine just fine okay
it's intended to go in your lap but uh
hey hey hey
nice
we in ladies and gentlemen
i don't know what he's loaded up on here
and i
think this is running at um
30 hertz
oh wow it is very hard for me to for me
to see anything on there all right one
sec
in before the stream crashes no no we're
mostly out of the woods at this point
you guys this is this is not this is not
bad okay oh i made my obs a lot bigger
all right let's try let's see if we can
change it to oh this mouse does not
track well on this
mouse pad
unfortunately
okay we run in 1080
and
what do you think is going to happen if
i change it to 60 hertz
wish me luck here guys
what's that 50 now
oh you know what
my preview is probably 30 because i'm
streaming at 30 fps
okay well there's your problem
either way you know
we're gonna we're gonna roll with it
we're gonna roll with it let's uh let's
fire up some some let's do a classic
let's go with a classic shadow of the
tomb raider all right
wow
this mouse
hates
this mouse pad or the sensor is dirty or
something because i this is barely
usable
did i press go
uh start in offline mode let's give it a
shot what do you think what are the odds
that uh
jake fired this up once before so it's
authenticated already
i'm gonna go with 20
you can count on him to like pre-install
the stuff but i don't think it's going
to be just like ready to launch in
offline mode there's no way you would
have seen that one coming
in offline mode
okay
library
shout shadow tomb raider is apparently
running oh yeah
and where would i find that running
application while it's really hard to
see around this camera
where would i find that that running
application pray tell steam
preparing to launch out of the tomb
raider okay you know what meantime i'm
gonna go get an ethernet cable
okay we can we got a solution here
yes
ethernet
got it yes error occurred that way we
expected that
that was an expected outcome okay
hopefully we already have ethernet
drivers pre-installed because otherwise
that is going to be kind of a pain in
the arse
all right
let's plug in
can he reach the network switch
with his
chicken arms
the answer is yes
oh man
my living room is full destroyed right
now okay
i cannot see uh yes
okay let's try that again
boop
here we go we got this
ah
okay i made that small again
you know what
here let's just
restart
yep okay
what's those black bars
on the top i don't know what it's doing
i should do some super chats though
viewer activity
uh this is not wide enough to
work it's like oh man the guys who
worked on this interface i'm sorry you
guys
i'm sure you meant well but boy is it
ever awful
oh wow there's a lot of super chats i
apologize in advance for not being able
to get through all of them you guys
there are there are far too many uh
thanks arlien that was like
an hour and a half ago
uh
readeth says hey lioness what monitor
you're using on your desk at home and
why
uh i'm using uh how big is the stupid
thing
like the 37-inch one the the lg ultra
wide 144 hertz that's like uh 3840x1600
i like it because it has super super
responsive pixels
you can tell from the pixels you know um
tommy gun
bearded linus
hashtag no homo all right yep
thank you for that and you too cody
uh robert says banjo is early today no
no wan show is not early today um
wan show will probably end up being late
today because i'm working on this right
now
hello
okay why is that computer not working
okay what's up my homies says keep the
beard robert says i sense a dollar ship
by dollar sponsorship by dollar shave
club soon
no i think they're more into people who
shave
right now i think i am not
uh dollar shave club's target
demographic
oh you know what i wonder if i need to
do a quick
oh it is working
oh i was looking at the stream feed
uh yep okay well there's your problem uh
okay cool
so
oh man do i remember the credentials for
this
um
okay is that not working now
dang it nothing is ever easy you know
please tell me this is working
oh it was dead for a second there you
know what i'm going to plug into usb 3
ports
not because i think a keyboard needs usb
3 speeds but they tend to have better
power delivery and this is
keyboard and mouse over one port
ah
i'm not sure
oh
did he get it
he got it
i upgraded my internet recently so i
want to do a game update before i
actually play a game because it's
awesome
let's see how fast it comes down oh it's
done
let's see if we can find something else
to update let's update this one
and
it's done
i went gigabit because i've been
transferring footage back to the office
from
my shoots that i've been doing here at
the house so
uh yeah it's been it's been it's been
pretty incredible um and it only cost me
like an extra 10 bucks a month compared
to my existing plan
so i'm pretty stoked uh yeah i had
yvonne call in she's like oh yeah it
looks like they don't have gigabit with
unlimited data and i'm like no no i'm
sure that they do
and
um
so we called and not only did they have
that but there was a deal where if we
signed a contract for two years or
whatever then it was much cheaper
and
i have no problem signing a contract
with telus for two years even though
i've had some bad experiences with them
just because
shaw has
nothing comparable and as far as i can
tell
nothing on the road map to compete with
their with their fiber so
we're we're stuck with telus for better
for worth it actually the service has
been excellent
so i don't want to i don't want to hate
on the service like like the
not the customer service like the
the internet service has been very
reliable
once we got through all the whole thing
where they like sent an offer to my
house and i didn't actually have that
service available here so i said hey
yeah i do want it i want this offer but
you guys haven't installed it in my
neighborhood yet and they were like well
too bad i'm like well look i'm not the
one who sent a flyer to my house why are
you guys
you know sending me offers for things
that aren't available and then being
unwilling to honor them a couple months
later when you actually install in my
neighborhood anyway we got it all sorted
out it's all good
all right so we're just gonna we're just
gonna run the benchmark i guess i'm
running on medium i disabled motion blur
because it's stupid and
let's see how this puppy performs i mean
it's going to perform you know about
like you'd expect i would think i can
read some super chats in the meantime
though
this is such a jank setup oh i'm going
to do a youtube story right now this is
hilarious
all right
let's just turn this around use a selfie
camera
just doing a casual pc build stream here
you know building a pc
with the jankiest setup ever
see i can see myself over there and got
my twitch chat and my youtube chat and
everything
look at this capture card hovering in
midair
oh that was slightly over 15 seconds
okay we got to try one more time sorry
guys one sec
just at home doing a game stream
game stream that's not what i'm doing
see i don't even know what i'm doing
this is why i need my staff to write
things for me
just at home doing a pc build stream you
know got my pc got my you know wall got
my incredibly janky setup
twitch chat youtube chat
is that a capture card hovering in
midair yes it is
all right we'll go ahead and post that
and that my friends is how the magic is
made
now i gotta post that to youtube
hello
man
youtube stories is like
it's
pretty bad compared to
instagram's implementation like this is
just frozen
it'll wake up eventually but it hasn't
yet
oh i just got the message of the week
i
my phone is completely locked up thank
you for that
and the funny thing is i'm only using
this phone instead of the fold because
youtube stories is completely not
available on the fold it
was working and then it wasn't and then
it was and now it isn't again really
frustrating okay we're gonna wait we're
gonna wait for the youtube app hello
youtube app
you can do it buddy
well whatever we're just going to post
that to instagram for the time being
and if youtube
wants that stuff in their stories then
they can have a better app see look it
is already posted to instagram just like
that oh hey there it is wait what is
this that's the wrong clip no i clicked
the wrong one
oh
no
okay i'm just going to not interrupt it
this time
i will read some super chats
uh the phoenix says i should shave on
stream that's not a bad idea i think
there would be there would be riots in
the street though based on how many
people are telling me to keep the beard
like 404
velocs
and
bobby
uh
ishaq
and these are just all people that are
sending super chats about the beard and
josiah
oh lordy
um
nostalgia trip one says if i upgrade to
m.2 what's the best method to transfer
the os from a two and a half inch ssd
um
you know what
i'm not 100 sure because i know that
those drives would require
different
like i know going from like ide mode to
hci was a big problem back in the day
because you were operating the ssd's
controller in like a different mode and
there were different drivers involved i
don't know how easy it is to go from
sata to nvme i do see that our benchmark
run is done though
that's looking pretty swell
average fps of 107 running tomb raider
on medium
it's a good looking game on medium
all right what else we got here
i quit the game yes
we could play some cs go through a
capture card
at 30 frames per second
uh if you guys want to see me fail real
bad then we could do that
why don't we do that let's play some
let's play some cs go shall we
eventually maybe this story will post
see it's still working on it still
working on it over there
so brutal
it's usually better than this
this is particularly bad
austin berger says this man knows
nothing about building computers don't
fall for it it's all a sham
you're on to me
justin thank you
thanks chris
more beard stuff sam ch says show more
breast we might forget about the beard
all right fair enough
highlander i'm spending five dollars to
tell you the beard looks good and you
should keep it
okay i'm i i'm sorry i can't read all
the beard comments
oh i will read anything not beard uh
gaul says you may have mentioned this
earlier but using the ryzen 5 and an
asrock b450 pro needs an update for the
bios i yes
uh and anything that's on the shelf now
should be updated by this point that's
only true of stock that hasn't been
updated to a newer bios
um
robert says this there's supposed to be
a live stream chat on floatplane mobile
no i don't think that works yet
um
yeah it's very much a work in progress
big benson says how far along is the
mouse pad
um yeah kovid has not made it any faster
you are in fact correct about that we're
still working on finalizing a supplier
we want something that
is up to the quality standards that we
expect uh skye saiyan says when are you
coming to toronto
um
no time soon how about that
uh jonathan says here's a toonie towards
a new screwdriver thank you i think i
get about 70 percent of that
but hey it adds up it adds up
i actually have a screwdriver plan
i'm gonna get a swiss army name oh look
at that it's ready it's ready my youtube
story is ready
post
hey good job good job youtube app
uh tony says why the ko over the 5600 xt
driver issues seem to be ironed out over
here on team red and that's why because
if i had a dollar for every time i saw
the message the driver issues seem to be
mostly resolved now
i would have enough to buy
a ko
um
it's just the way it is
not a fanboy
love the cpus right now i just like
stuff that just works the first time
um
joshua says wonder if you ever saw my rg
rig reboot video is one with the ltt
underwear and the literal garbage fire i
don't know if i did catch that one also
guys just to be clear that doesn't mean
that we haven't recommended amd cards in
the past when
the driver issues are good and they've
got them sorted out we have recommended
them many times but the ko does happen
to be a particularly great value right
now especially if you do more than just
game
jack walsh says i have a printer and
want to help with the face shield
project where can i find the clear bit
um it's laser cut i forget what material
it is that we're using but that's going
to be in the video that we're going to
have up pretty shortly uh thanks andy
xiong
x-i-o-n-g
however i pronounce that
um thanks tom
appreciate the super chat oh i'm almost
at the end okay no more super chats
don't send more super chats um thanks
adam quasi
thanks cachiku
uh nick says refund of the unsolicited
refund colton gave me for my ltx snafu i
told you it's fine we had no problem
giving you a refund for it wow that's a
200 super chat 200 euro super chat now
that the canadian dollar is worth
nothing that's a lot
well thank you very much but like
i really feel like the right thing for
us to do was to refund you
um
it is what it is i guess at this point
thank you very much
all right let's move on to uh okay
that's it for super chats i am
bringing this up ah here we go let's
play some cs go
should we do official matchmaking
no let's do a community server browser
uh yes yes yes yes i understand
oh boy that is so small that i cannot
see it at all
um fantastic also half the screen is
hidden behind a thing there
uh maybe if i could just move this over
yeah there we go
all right that's a lot better okay so
let's find one so these are sorted by
ping right now
all right ah i can't see at all
it's already
kind of full screenish
uh okay so we want one that's not locked
how about um
where where's the map is it was the map
oh yeah there we go
okay
how about this one
10 player dust 2 server
oh is that a 20 player office server
sure
no that one's password protected i can't
i can't see the locks from here they're
so small
uh
inferno
there's a 12-person dust too
can we get a desk too with more
capacity maybe
i'm okay with office as well
oh that one's locked
gosh darn it
oh wait what
oh yeah okay it's hard to tell what mine
it's on i love that one
okay
join game wait what
what
now what
i don't get it so you have to
so you can have passwords that are on
this side now
wait what
am i in or not
i appear to be in okay woo here we go
uh what's going on are these bots or
what
what game mode is this
okay apparently this is not a normal
game mode oh okay so this is just like
uh
wait are people no these are did i just
get killed by a bot
darn it
okay so i'm supposed to attack
terrorists
wow this is really choppy i'm not
blaming the computer though
all right i got to enable developer
console
enabled yes
how's our fps doing oh yeah we got a few
hundred fps no no no good oh i can't see
my crosshair
this is terrible apparently that was a
pop-up from the previous server that
never went away thank you for give in uh
chat there i cannot see my crosshair
from here this is the worst this is
actually a terrible terrible gaming
experience
i really i really don't blame the
computer though i built a good computer
just
through a capture card on a window
on my tv across the room with a camera
in the way is not the best wait i have a
shotgun now i don't have a shotgun i got
to get closer then oh no
okay where are we at what gun do i have
oh okay i've got a shotgun again okay
that's fine i can work with that
that's the no aim required
weapon
okay where are y'all hiding that
i'm surprised more of you haven't joined
already
no come on
wow i am getting dominated by a bot
this may be the worst thing that's ever
happened to me
come on kill something please
please please is something dead i can't
tell i can't see the messages
did i kill anything i can't tell
yes i killed someone
good
about time
oh there's a bad guy
oh yes got another one
what does the kid say got him
i can't see the chat so i have no idea
if the stream is even still running
right now
okay where are you at terrorists
oh and i'm dead cool
all right
well i think
we have established now that the
computer is in fact working
it's gaming
it's a pretty rocking little system for
800 bucks that is a very very good
gaming experience it's not the cheapest
gaming rig by any stretch of the
imagination but this is where you really
get into that like fantastic bang for
the buck range
i'm just going to hide this
where every dollar is contributing to
making this a better system
or
to the rgb lighting
not bad right
let's cycle through all the included
modes here hold on i'm just gonna adjust
that so you can't see my windows quite
as much yeah that's pretty good
there we go we got purple
we got white
oh wow we even got some effects those
are addressable rgb led fans
very nice
someone says it's not live on youtube
very funny i can see it live on youtube
i have moved it now
all right oh oh that was a nice little
like fading effect that we were looking
at before wow there's a lot of different
lighting effects cheese
okay well that's quite enough lighting
effects for us to go through right now i
think
okay cool you know what let's pick a
favorite one oh i think i passed my
favorite one dang it
where's the one i want not that one
not that one not that one not that one
not that one dang it
is that it
now there's a more rainbowy one hey
there it is love it that's what i'm
sticking with
so thank you for tuning in to this fun i
hope little pc building stream i
actually just realized i have no idea
how many people are even watching it 21
000 apparently well thank you very much
for that you guys and that's on youtube
alone i have no counter on uh twitch or
oh yeah i do have one on twitch i can
pull that up apparently there's uh 2400
watching over there and i have no
counter for floatplane all right i
promised you guys i was going to show
you the janky setup before i signed off
so i'm going to do that now this is
absolutely nuts
i'm just going to plug the webcam back
in and hope that that just immediately
works
let's see
what are the odds
i'm going with
uh
hello
okay hold on maybe it's just a matter of
going in and deactivating and then
activating it
come on baby ha ha yes
we got wait
okay yes good all right we good
all right i'm going to show you guys the
setup now this is redonkadonk
so holding the webcam
was this c-stand i'm going to try and
get this as steady as i can here so this
c-stand holding the webcam
all right which was plugged into the
front ports of my vr gaming setup down
there
in the other front port is the cam link
4k that you're going to see in my
streaming setup upgrade video so i stole
that from my computer upstairs and then
plugged into that
i've got
an hdmi to dvi
adapter and then a dvi
to hdmi cable going into my canon c200
camera so this is the one nice piece of
gear in this whole setup actually no
my wireless lab is also a nice piece of
gear so that's a lecture sonic's
whatever the crap super super nice
wireless lav
all right so the cameras on a tripod is
plugged into doo
this power squid which is plugged into
that extension cord and then
is also plugged into this extension cord
which is powering the computer
when i was gaming
i had replaced the webcam
uh the webcam slot over there with this
capture card which was suspended in the
air here because that was as close as uh
or that was as far as it could reach
since i only have this super short
hdmi cable to go into the back of the
computer
lighting is taken care of by one of
these uh what are they called quasar
science something or others but this is
a pretty nice light and then i've got an
aperture 300d
mark ii over there and then there's
another quasar behind the couch giving
it that blue glow there
so yep
oh yeah right the jankiest part
this is my coffee table
on paint cans and
[Music]
some spare
two by two pieces of wood from some ikea
furniture
so that's uh yep
there this is the view from the cameras
angle
pretty terrible
love it
all right
oh right
and then switching scenes
is handled by my
my airmouse uh bluetooth
keyboard mouse doodad so i've just got a
hotkey on here
thanks for tuning in guys and
we will see you okay no moving the
moving the camera down wasn't really an
option because if i'm like sitting there
it's hard to like build a computer i
guess i could have sat but it's really
low it's too low all right thanks for
tuning in guys uh good stream good
stream fun stream
see you uh in an hour on wine show i
guess